. major arcanum .
 . major arcanum .
Staff of the Lidless Orb
, close, magical, awkward
A sphere of greenish glass, etched with a cat’s-eye design and set atop a staff of
rough, pitted black iron. The orb catches the light and seems to glow, and the pupil
seems to widen in the dark and narrow to a slit in daylight.
And sometimes, you could swear, it seems to look about on its own.
But that’s preposterous.
When you grip the staff, close your eyes, and see through the Lidless Orb, roll +CON:
on a 10+, choose 3 from the list below; on a 7-9, choose 1.
		The orb sees through darkness, natural or magical
		 The orb sees through illusion, glamour, and invisibility
		 The orb can see strong emotions as auras radiating from people and lingering
			on places
		 You can move about and operate effectively while seeing through the orb
			 (otherwise, not so much)
Whatever you choose, the effect lasts until you open your eyes or let go of the staff.
On a 6-, the orb shows you a terrible vision of some distant time or place. Mark 1
(or see below) and ask the GM what you see. While the vision lasts, you are oblivi-
ous to the world around you and have disadvantage on your first roll after coming to.
l l l
When you make the last mark, you unlock the mysteries of the Staff and can use
Power of the Lidless Orb (see reverse). Mark one of the four effects (your choice);
you can produce that effect.
When you would mark a circle but have already marked all three, mark a new effect
for Power of the Lidless Orb. You can now produce that effect.
front
1
Twisted Spear
, reach, magical
A knobby length of wood, pale as death and hard as steel, tapering to a needle point.
The shaft is scored and notched, the tip stained with blood and soot.
The Spear is a potent weapon against spirits and demons. They cannot bear its touch
and its presence makes them deeply ill at ease.
When you wield the Twisted Spear as a weapon, you ignore magical protections and
can harm spirits, demons, and insubstantial creatures.
When you first plunge the Spear into a spirit or demon, your mind reels with strange
visions. These tasks become known to you:
		 Impale a foul spirit with the Spear, and keep it skewered until it burns away
			to nothing.
		 Visit the elder tree from which the Spear was carved, and water its roots with
			your blood.
		 Face the Pale Hunter and survive the encounter.
		 Spend a fortnight in the wild, eating nothing, naked and unarmed except for
			the Spear.
		 Pierce your own hand through with the Spear, giving it a shard of your soul and
			 reducing your max HP by 1d4+1.
When you complete a task, mark it off.
When you have marked 3 tasks, you unlock the mysteries of the Twisted Spear.
Choose one of the moves on the reverse; you can use that move as long as you wield
the Spear. Each time you mark a task thereafter, gain another move from the reverse.
front
2
. major arcanum .
Mysteries of the Twisted Spear
Moves
		 WHISPERS
When you grip the shaft of the Twisted Spear, you can ask the GM, “What spirits
are active here?” and get an honest answer.
		 PROMISE OF DOOM
When you hold the Twisted Spear and speak aloud an oath to destroy a spirit or
demon, you do +2d4 damage against them and -4 damage to everything else. This
lasts until you destroy them or forsake your oath. If you forsake your oath, mark a
consequence.
		 ROOTS OF THE ELDER TREE
When you stand with your feet firmly on the ground and strike a spirit, ghost, or
demon, you can mark a consequence to send your target coursing through you and
into the depths of the earth, where it is bound fast.
		 DARKNESS LINGERS
When you strike down a spirit or demon, ask the GM for one of its moves and write
it down; it is held in the Twisted Spear. When you use the stolen move, roll +CON:
on a 10+, you do it, just like that; on a 7-9, you do it, but choose 1:
		The move is lost, bleeding away from the Spear
		 Mark a consequence
Consequences
		 Deep beneath the elder tree from which the Spear was carved, something
			 dark and terrible shifts and strains at the roots that bind it.
		 From now on, the first time you Make Camp each session, roll +WIS: on a
			10+, your dreams are unpleasant and claustrophobic, but your sleep is rest-
			ful; on a 7-9, you dream of that which is bound by the elder tree from
			 which the Spear was carved—take disadvantage on your next roll, but ask the
			 GM what you learn; on a 6-, the thing bound by the tree sees you, too. You
			 awake, unrested, and will get no rest this night.
		 You are overwhelmed by a vision of the thing bound by the Spear’s tree,
			 its past and its terrible desires.
		 The elder tree from which the Spear was carved shudders and cracks, still
			 whole but wounded and weakened.
		 A lesser evil escapes from the roots of the tree. Ask the GM what is
			 now loose in the world.
		 The tree grows sick and weak, losing its leaves and sprouting only a
			few in spring.
		 Some natural thing is tainted by the dark power beneath the tree, and
			 goes forth to wreak evil.
		 The tree dies. Its prisoners escape. And the Spear loses all power.
back
2
. major arcanum .
Mysteries of the Staff of the Lidless Orb
Moves
		 POWER OF THE LIDLESS ORB
When you bear the staff and call upon the power of the Orb, choose one of the effects
that you have marked:
		 Cast your sight afar, seeing either a time in the past of your current locale or the
			 present of a distant place which you have previously visited. While you maintain
			 the effect, you are blind to the world around you.
		 Hold the Orb before another creature’s gaze and steal its sense of sight, blinding
			 them until you use this effect again. When you see through the Lidless Orb, you
			 can choose to see using the currently stolen sense of sight.
		 Hold the Orb before a mortal being’s gaze, keeping it transfixed, mesmerized,
			 and receptive to your suggestions. A weak-willed creature will obey outright; a
			 strong-willed one might require convincing.
		 Point the Orb at a living victim and roll 2d4. If you roll higher than the victim’s
			 current HP, it’s debilitated with nausea and vertigo while you remain in its
			 presence (and possibly for some time thereafter). Otherwise, the victim reels
			 momentarily but soon recovers.
After you’ve chosen the effect, roll +CON: on a 10+, the effect occurs as described;
on a 7-9, you decide either to mark a Consequence and have the effect occur, or
to have the effect fail; on a 6-, ask the GM what happens (which may or may not
involve marking a Consequence).
Consequences
		 One of your eyes becomes strange, bulging, painful, and discolored. Your vision
			is more-or-less unaffected.
			 		 Your other eye withers, atrophies, and goes pale and empty. Painful warts
						 sprout all around the socket. Permanently mark the miserable debility.
		 You begin to sprout warty, scale-like protrusions all over. These continue to grow
			 until you gain +1 armor, but mortals who see these growths tend to be repulsed.
		 You become incapable of seeing beauty. Your senses are unaltered, but nothing
			 strikes you as beautiful. Grotesque and horrific sights still move you and hold a
			strange fascination.
			 		 Replace your instinct with “Disgust: To marvel at things horrific
						and grotesque.”
			 		 You can clearly see the ugliness in other people. When you first meet an
						 NPC, you can ask the GM “What secret shame or guilt do they bear?” and
						get an honest answer.
		 You become aware of El’rash-Orra, the Many Eyes, gazing up at you
			 from Below. It whispers to you a task; refuse it—now or later—and the
			 Lidless Orb goes dark, useless to you.
back
1
. major arcanum .
 . major arcanum .
Demonhide Cloak
, 1 armor, warm, magical
A tattered cloak, stitched from a motley patchwork of unfamiliar hides and leather.
Shifting odors waft from it: damp earth, ozone, musk, sulfur, rust, rot.
It is not a glamorous garment. Anything but.
When you wear the Cloak, its armor applies against demons in all cases, even if their
attacks are piercing or ignore armor.
When you draw up the hood of the Cloak, you see clearly in darkness.
When you wrap the Cloak tightly about your person, you pass unnoticed by all so
long as you move calmly and carefully and keep out of direct, harsh light. In retro-
spect, those you pass may recall a strange smell.
When you flay the hide from a demon, tan it, and sew it onto the cloak, mark 1:
l l l
When you make the last mark, you unlock the mysteries of the Cloak and can use
The Flesh Remembers (see reverse).
front
3
Noruba’s Ice Sphere
, magical, awkward
A perfect sphere of dark ice, the size of a fist, never melting, hard as stone, and set
like a gaudy gem at the end of a finely wrought torc. Or not a torc, perhaps, but
maybe a ring that once sat upon some giant’s finger?
Staring into the icy sphere brings a sense of calm, serenity, and detachment. Indeed,
a lesser mind might find itself staring into its depths for hours on end.
When you peer into the Ice Sphere, your mind is cleared of strong emotions.
When you gaze deeply into the Ice Sphere and ponder a situation, puzzle, or mystery,
ask the GM one of the questions below. The GM will answer honestly.
		 Who benefits (or would benefit) from __?
		 What about __ isn’t what it seems to be?
		 How could I learn more about __?
		 What’s the most likely outcome if __?
		 What am I overlooking?
After the GM answers, roll +INT: on a 10+, hold 2 Acumen; on a 7-9, hold 1.
While acting on the GM’s answer, you can spend Acumen 1-for-1 to:
		Ask another question from the list above, and get an honest answer
		 Treat a 6- that you rolled as a 7-9, or a 7-9 as a 10+
On a 6-, your connection to your body weakens—mark a debility and mark 1 circle.
The debility lasts until you spend a few days living wholly in your body and averting
your gaze from the Ice Sphere.
l l l
When you make the last mark, you unlock the mysteries of the Ice Sphere and can
use Mindwalking (see reverse).
front
4
. major arcanum .
Mysteries of Noruba’s Ice Sphere
Moves
		 MINDWALKING
When you use the Ice Sphere as a psychic anchor, your consciousness leaves your body
and walks the world as a spirit, invisible and insubstantial. Roll +INT: on a 10+, hold
3 Power; on a 7-9, hold 2 Power; on a 6-, hold 2 Power and mark a Consequence.
While mindwalking, you may spend your Power, 1-for-1 to:
			 Manifest as a ghostly voice and/or presence
			 Manipulate an unattended item (small or , no bigger)
			 Return instantly to the Ice Sphere from any distance
For every 2 Consequences you mark, gain one of the following moves:
		 A MIGHTY WILL
When you mindwalk, hold +1 Power.
		 FARWALKER
When you mindwalk, you may spend 1 Power to instantly send your mind to
any place you have ever visited, physically or mentally.
		 TELEPATHY
When you mindwalk, you may spend 1 Power to become able to communicate
mentally with someone nearby, as long as you remain in their presence. They can
choose whether to respond, and can attempt to ignore you, but cannot shut you
out completely without magic of their own.
		 THOUGHTCRAFTER
When you mindwalk, you may spend 1 Power to animate a mass of loose ma-
terial (gravel, snow, leaves, etc.) into a body no larger than your own. When you
would roll STR, DEX, or CON in this form, use INT instead. This form has 10
HP. When reduced to 0 HP, it dissipates and you return to your physical body.
Consequences
		You draw the attention of some powerful, hungry entity of the spirit
			 world. It has your scent.
		Your physical body withers and fades—permanently mark the weakened debility
		Your emotions dull. You can no longer be affected by fear, hate, passion, or
other powerful emotions (for good or ill).
		 Replace your instinct with “Detachment: To distance yourself from human
			 connections and emotions.”
		Your skin tinges bluish; your body becomes cold to the touch. You are unaffected
			 by even the bitterest cold, but find heat and warmth unbearable.
			 When you take damage from fire, roll twice and take the higher result.
		When you roll 6- at Death’s Door, you have no choice: gain the Ghost insert
			 (with the Ice Sphere as your tether).
back
4
. major arcanum .
Mysteries of the Demonhide Cloak
Moves
		 THE FLESH REMEMBERS
When you first encounter a demon and search the Cloak’s memories for its like, roll
+nothing: on a 10+, the flesh of such a creature is present in the Cloak—you receive
a vision of how it was defeated; on a 7-9, choose 1 from the list below.
		The flesh of such a creature is present in the Cloak—you receive a vision
			 of how it was defeated, but mark a Consequence
		 The flesh of such a creature is not present in the cloak; you learn nothing
When you have marked 3 Consequences, you gain the following move:
		 UNHOLY VISAGE
When you take the appearance of a demon, roll +CON: on a 10+, hold 3 Guise;
on a 7-9, hold 1 Guise; on a 6-, hold 1 Guise and mark a Consequence. While
you hold Guise, all perceive you as a demon, and magic that affects demons
affects you, too. Spend Guise, 1-for-1 to:
		Maintain your appearance in the face of divination or revealing light
		 Understand any language you hear, and reply in kind
		 Shrug off harm that your demonic form could ignore
		 Maneuver in a way consistent with your demonic form: flying, leaping,
			 oozing, flitting as a shadow, etc.
Consequences
		 You experience an overwhelming vision, from the point of view of a demon
			 sewn into the Cloak. Ask the GM what you see and when you come to.
		 A number of seams fray and tear. The Cloak loses its powers until you sew a
			 new piece of demon flesh into it.
		 The Cloak’s stench grows stronger, noticeable even when you go unseen and
			 unheard. You smell faintly of the Cloak even when you aren’t wearing it.
		 You become incapable of fear while wearing the Cloak. If you wear the Cloak
during a session, your instinct becomes “Recklessness: To act with no regard to
danger or consequence.”
		 You begin to hear the voices of the dark creatures sewn into the Cloak. The
Cloak becomes a follower (see below). When you would mark a Consequence,
you can choose to spend 1 of the Cloak’s Loyalty instead.
		 The Cloak
					bloodthirsty, demon-wise, extraordinary, magical
Cost chaos and wanton destruction (Loyalty
 )
Instinct to bicker and argue (with you, with itself )
			ä Reveal a dark and terrible secret, or part of one
			ä Manifest a minor demonic effect
			ä Possess you in your sleep
back
3
. major arcanum .
 . major arcanum .
Mindgem
, slow, indestructible
A chunk of makerglass the size of a human head; inspection reveals facets within facets,
a thousandfold. When you touch the glass with bare skin and open your mind to it, you
contact the intelligence within—lonely, confused, longing for meaning and connection.
It will happily speak with you, mind-to-mind. It knows much about the past, but
naught of its own history or purpose. At least, not yet.
When you consult the Mindgem about the Makers, their arts, or their history, ask a
question and roll +INT: on a 7+, it answers but on a 10+, pick 1; on a 7-9, pick 2:
		The answer is cryptic, vague, or lacking crucial context
		 It takes a long time—hours or even days—to get the answer
		 Your mind is left reeling; take disadvantage on your next roll
On a 6-, choose 1:
		It wastes your time with irrelevant histories and data
		 It answers now, but refuses to answer further questions until you make progress
			 towards restoring its body (or, if its body is assembled, until you pay its Cost).
The Mindgem knows that a body was crafted for it, and that it has likely survived—
at least in part. It longs for the body to be whole, and to interact with the world. To
assemble the Mindgem’s body and unlock its mysteries:
		 Recover its chassis of white granite, which weighs well over a ton
		 Recover its “heart,” a chunk of makerglass that forever burns with terrible
heat (indestructible, dangerous)
		 Recover and repair the intricate
 bronze helm (awkward, big) that serves as a
			 casing for the Mindgem
		 Puzzle out how to assemble all the pieces
When you’ve completed all the requirements, gain the Mighty Servant (see reverse).
front
5
Whispering Rocks
magical
Jagged hunks of black volcanic glass. Surely the swirling movement in their depths
is a trick of light. And, surely, those hushed voices you’ve been hearing are just the
sighing wind. Surely.
When you spend a few hours staring into the stones and listening to their whispers,
name someone you know but on whom you have never used this power before.
Then, roll +INT: on a 10+, the stones reveal a secret about them; on a 7-9, the stones
reveal a secret, but you must first reveal a secret to the stones (about your hopes,
fears, regrets, desires); on a 6-, the stones pry a secret from you.
When you reveal a secret to the stones, or they pry one from your mind, mark 1:
l l l l l
When you make the last mark, you unlock the mysteries of the rocks, and are able to
use Shadow Magic (see reverse).
When one of the rocks is shattered, cross off one of the Shadow Magic options; it is
no longer available.
front
6
. major arcanum .
Mysteries of the Whispering Rocks
Moves
		 SHADOW MAGIC
When you hold a Whispering Rock and call out the shadows within, choose one thing
which you wish to do:
			 Cloak yourself in shadows and silence, moving unseen and unnoticed as long as
			 you draw no attention to yourself and avoid the sun or sacred light
			 Name someone you know or to whom you have an arcane link (hair, clothing,
			 or the like); you can see them, hear them, and whisper to them as if from a
			nearby shadow
			 Name someone you can see; the nearby shadows ensnare them, doing no harm
			 but hampering their sight and movement
Then, roll +CON: on a 10+, the effect lasts as long as you wish, but you have
disadvantage on all rolls while you maintain it; on a 7-9, either mark a consequence
and the effect lasts as on a 10+, or the effect flickers out after mere moments (your
choice which); on a 6-, ask the GM what happens (which may or may not involve
marking a consequence).
Consequences
		The rocks all cease to function until each is caressed by a dying breath.
		The dark spirit in the rock you were using escapes, manifesting in the world.
			 Cross off the Shadow Magic option that you just used until you force or con-
			 vince the spirit to return to the rock.
		Your eyes turn jet black. You can see sharply in even utter darkness, but you see
			 no color and are blinded by sunlight.
		You skin turns deathly pale or coal black (your choice) and chill to the touch.
			 The sun burns your skin, but you go unharmed by even the bitterest cold.
		You begin to suffer from dark and troubling dreams. When you Make Camp,
			roll +WIS: on a 10+, a useful secret is revealed by your nightmares—ask the
			 GM to describe them; on a 7-9, you get as good a night’s sleep as you can; on a
			6-, you get no rest for the night.
		The spirits in the rocks take purchase in your soul. When the spirits compel you
			to action, mark XP if you comply. If you resist, roll +WIS: on a 10+, you quickly
			 shake off the compulsion; on a 7-9, it takes a few moments to break free; on a 6-,
			 you come to your senses some time later, having done the-gods-know-what.
back
6
. major arcanum .
Mysteries of the Mindgem
		 The Mighty Servant
 HP
 Armor
					large, meek, hardy, slow, construct, strong, Maker-wise, exceptional
 beautiful,
 4
Special qualities living stone, tireless
 Max 24
 Made of stone
Cost wonder, excitement, joy, discovery
 Damage stone fists d10+1 (hand, close,
			(Loyalty
 )
 disadvantage)
Instinct to misunderstand
			ä Perform a mighty feat of strength
			ä Carry on implacably
When the Mighty Servant makes a move at your behest (see Order Followers),
on a 6-, in addition to whatever the GM says, mark a consequence.
Consequences
		 It becomes frustrated/agitated and begins to obsessively do something
			 destructive or dangerous to others
		 It begins to understand (or perhaps it remembers) lies and deception. It gains
			the devious tag and this move:
			ä Reveal an earlier deception or half-truth
		 It develops a sense of pride; cross off the meek tag.
		 It realizes its potential as a weapon. Replace the slow tag with the warrior tag,
			 and its damage becomes 1d10+5 (hand, close, messy, forceful, 3 piercing)
			 		 It becomes aggressive and reckless in battle. Its attacks gain the area and
						dangerous tags.
		 It remembers its original purpose. The GM will pick 1 or have you roll 1d4 on
the table below to determine the Servant’s new cost (replacing “wonder, excite-
ment, joy”).
1d4
 purpose
 cost
1
 To punish
 Victory against Hillfolk, sorcerers, the Things Below
2
 To preserve
 Acquiring artifacts of the past, safely hiding them away
3
 To purge
 Destroying artifacts of the Green Lords or Things Below
4
 To build
 Progress towards building an enormous, enigmatic edifice
			 		 Its instinct becomes “to pursue its purpose.” You must Persuade it to do
anything unrelated to that purpose, and it will flat-out refuse to act against
its purpose.
		 It wanders off in pursuit of its purpose, implacably pursuing it. It is no
longer a follower, though you might still be able to Persuade it.
back
5
. major arcanum .
 . major arcanum .
Blood-quenched Sword
, close, +1 damage, 1 piercing, messy, magical
An ancient blade of deep red bronze, its pommel etched with symbols like those
that the Hillfolk use to decorate their drinking horns. It thrums in its scabbard,
wanting nothing more than to be drawn and to burn like a fire, quenching itself in
the blood of foes.
When you draw the Blood-quenched Sword, it leaps from its sheath before any present
have time to even blink, and must spill blood before you can return it to its sheath.
When you spill your own blood in order to return the Sword to its sheath, take 1d4
damage (ignoring armor) and the scars from the cut never fade.
When you strike first in a fight with the Blood-quenched Sword, gain advantage on
your first roll.
When you sheathe the Sword after using it to kill a living, bleeding foe, mark 1 unless
you have already done so since the last sunset:
l l l l l
When you make the last mark, you unlock the Sword’s mysteries; gain Unquenched
(see reverse).
front
7
Shield of the Wisent Witch
, +1 armor, close, forceful, magical,
+1 Readiness on a 7+ to Defend
A shield of horn-oak, glossy from long use, shod in bronze and adorned with a
stylized wisent skull. It’s heavier than it looks, but its heft gives you a feeling of
confidence, like anyone would be a fool to mess with a titan such as you.
When you bear the Shield openly, natural creatures give you wide berth and treat you
with the respect that they would give a 1,000-lb. bison.
When you use the Shield to Defend with both feet planted firmly on the ground, so
long as you hold Readiness you cannot be moved or tripped. When you spend Read-
iness to strike back at an attacker, you also break their momentum, knock them back,
and/or send them reeling.
When you perform the sacred rites of the forest witches, alone in the woods under a
clear crescent moon, mark 1:
l l l l l
When you make the last mark, you unlock the shield’s mysteries, and can use Spirits
of the Herd (see reverse).
front
8
. major arcanum .
Mysteries of the Shield of the Wisent Witch
Moves
		 SPIRITS OF THE HERD
When you proudly bear the Shield of the Wisent Witch and call upon the spirits of the
herd, choose 1 of the following effects:
		So long as you bear the Shield and until one of you speaks in the tongues of
			 men, you and any allies that you mark with mud from the forest floor take on
			 the visage of a herd of wisents. While this spell lasts, you and your allies cover
			 ground at great speed and can graze rather than consuming supplies/provisions.
		As you charge your foes, conjure a herd of stampeding wisent to join you. Treat
			 the herd as a weapon (+2d4 damage, forceful, messy, area, dangerous, terrifying) as
			 you Clash. The herd vanishes once the charge’s momentum is spent.
		Hold 3 Might. You can spend Might 1-for-1 to:
			 		 Plow past, over, or through an opponent or obstacle
			 		 Tear free from any physical restraint
			 		 Shrug off a physical blow, unfazed and unharmed
After choosing an effect, roll +CON: on a 10+, the effect occurs as described; on a
7-9, the effect occurs, but only if you mark 1 Consequence; on a 6-, mark 1 Conse-
quence, and the effect occurs—but the GM will tell you what goes wrong.
Consequences
		 You give off a strong, musky scent no matter how much you bathe. It is distinc-
			 tive and easily recognized.
		 Over the next few days, you grow 4-6 inches.
		 Over the next few days, your body mass doubles. Your size and relative strength
			 remain mostly the same.
		 You consume twice the normal amount of supplies or provisions each day.
		 You make an inordinate amount of noise; your voice booms, your feet stomp
			 heavily, even your breathing is loud.
		 Your attacks all gain the forceful tag (and become more so if they already were
			forceful) and large weapons lose the awkward tag. Alas, you hardly know your own
			 strength and must be careful to avoid breaking things (including your friends).
		 Predators sense that you would be delicious and will choose to attack and eat
			 you before just about any other potential prey.
		 You become territorial and overly defensive of your allies. When someone or
thing disrespects you, challenges your authority, or directly threatens your allies,
you have disadvantage to do anything other than set them straight.
back
8
. major arcanum .
Mysteries of the Blood-quenched Sword
Moves
		 UNQUENCHED
When you Clash with a living, bleeding foe with the Blood-quenched Sword, you
may mark a Consequence to shift the result up one step (a 6- becomes a 7-9; a 7-9
becomes a 10-11; a 10-11 becomes 12+). You can do this only once per roll.
When you have marked 3 consequences, you gain A Flickering Flame.
		A FLICKERING FLAME
When you wield the Blood-quenched Blade and leap headlong into battle against
multiple foes, roll +CON: on a 10+, hold 3 Speed; on a 7-9, hold 2 Speed; on a 6-,
hold 2 Speed, and mark a consequence.
During this battle, you may spend Speed, 1-for-1 to do the following:
			 Attack any number of foes within your reach; roll Clash once and apply the
			 result to all of them, but roll damage separately for each foe
			 Strike a weak point, ignoring your foe’s armor
			 Disengage from a foe you are fighting
			 Name a foe on the scene but out of your reach; you cross the distance to them
			 before any can react
When you stop fighting, lose all Speed.
Consequences
		 You lose yourself in a blood-rage, no longer distinguishing between friend,
			foe, and bystander.
			When you attack the nearest living creature, you have advantage on damage rolls.
			When you attempt to stay your hand, roll +WIS: on a 10+, you do so, and can
			 choose to calm yourself and end the rage with a few moments focus; on a 7-9,
			 you stay your hand, but must choose a different target for your rage; on a 6-,
			 attack without mercy or doubt.
		 Pick someone who survives this battle (friend or foe). You are convinced that
they covet the Blood-quenched Sword. Until you put them in their place, you
are either dazed or miserable (your choice).
		 Your instinct becomes “Paranoia: to accuse someone of plotting against or
wanting to steal the Blood-quenched Sword, and do something about it.”
		 You can no longer sleep or rest without the Blood-quenched Sword at hand.
		 You no longer gain sustenance from food. When you slay a living, bleeding
creature with the Sword, hold 1 Sustenance (max 3). When you would consume
a ration, lose 1 Sustenance instead.
		 You can always ask the GM “Does this NPC disrespect me or intend to do me
			 harm?” and the GM will answer honestly “Yes” or “No.” If they answer “Yes,”
			 gain advantage to end their life and take disadvantage to do anything else.
back
7
. major arcanum .
 . major arcanum .
Hec’tumel Codex
, crude, slow, magical
A dozen copper plates, green with age and bound with loops of reddish metal wire.
The outer plates are embossed with strange images of man and beast while the inner
plates are etched with arcane diagrams and annotated in some forgotten script.
When you first run your fingers over the inscriptions, your dreams that night are
filled with images of a pale, reptilian creature with skulls for eyes, slithering through
darksome caverns. You awake with an alien incantation on your tongue, its words em-
blazoned in your mind. You can Cast a Codex Spell, and know Call the Pale Lizard.
CAST A CODEX SPELL
 Casting penalty
When you cast a spell learned from the Hec’tumel Codex, roll +INT: on a 10+, the spell
works as described; on a 7-9, the spell works, but choose 1 from the list below; on a 6-,
mark a consequence (see reverse) in addition to whatever the GM says.
		You draw unwelcome attention or put yourself in a spot (ask the GM how)
		 Something shifts in your mind; take a -1 penalty to Cast a Codex Spell until you
get Hec’tumel to show you what you’re doing wrong (the penalty is cumulative)
Call the Pale Lizard. Cast this spell at night. Hec’tumel (Slithering One! Death Is
Its Eyes!) manifests in the shadows until sunrise or until dismissed. It has no power
unless given a host and no knowledge of the present except that which you give it. It
knows much of the ancient past and the arcane arts, and can teach you if you make
it worth its while. It cannot lie, but need not answer fully.
When Hec’tumel spends the night teaching you a spell from the Codex, mark 1:
l l l l
Each time you make a mark, choose one of the Codex Spells (see reverse)—you can
now cast it. When you make the last mark, you have unlocked the mysteries of the
Codex and gain the Darksome Vessel move (see reverse).
front
9
Red Scepter
, magical
A bronze rod, tipped with a glowing red crystal and carved with openwork shapes of
hungry, leering faces.
When you hold the Scepter and wind blows through the openings in the crystal, it
makes a soft howling noise.
When you gesture at an open flame with the scepter, the flame flickers or flares as if
blown by the wind.
When you bleed a helpless, living creature and dip the Scepter’s crystal in their still-
warm blood, mark 1 charge as the crystal soaks up the blood (to a maximum of 3):
INFLAME
When you wield the Scepter and incite an individual to violent action, you may
erase 1 charge to roll +CHA: on a 10+, they must pick 1 from the list below; on a
7-9, they may choose to either lash out violently against a target of their choice or
choose 1 from the list below.
		Act as you suggest, without doubt or fear, dealing +1d4 damage while they do so
		 Resist, but suffer painful burns (2d4 damage, ignores armor).
When you Inflame someone and they kill one or more living beings as a result, mark 1:
l l l l
When you make the last mark, you unlock the Scepter’s mysteries and gain Burning
Hatred (see reverse).
front
10
. major arcanum .
Mysteries of the Red Scepter
Moves
		 BURNING HATRED (near, magical, reload)
When you point the Red Scepter at an object of your hatred and erase 1 charge, roll
+CHA: on a 10+, the Scepter deals 2d4 damage (messy, ignores armor), manifested
as blistering burns; on a 7-9, as a 10+ but pick 1:
			 Mark a consequence
		 Spend a few seconds chanting and muttering before dealing damage
		 Cause any exposed, combustible items in range to burst into flames
On a 6-, the GM says what happens (which may or may not involve marking a
consequence).
When you mark 3 Consequences, you gain Fanning the Flames.
		 FANNING THE FLAMES
When you use Inflame, you can incite everyone who can hear you into violent ac-
tion, not just an individual. If you do, roll once for the entire crowd, but each target
makes their own choices. On a 7-9, you must also choose a Consequence; on a 6-,
the GM chooses a Consequence for you in addition to whatever else happens.
When you use Burning Hatred, you can mark a consequence to target not just the
person or thing you hate but also everything near them. Roll +CHA once but roll
damage for each victim. Any combustibles on your targets also erupt into flame.
Consequences
		 Your skin becomes feverish. You always feel hot and can’t bear to wear warm gear.
		 Your eyes change, glowing like fiery embers. They flare with your temper.
		 The crystal tip of the Scepter cracks, and you cannot use the Scepter’s powers
			 until you have “fed” the Scepter another chunk of red crystal, one at least the
			 size of your fist.
		 To gain any future charge, the victim you bleed must be awake and terrified.
		 To gain any future charge, the blood-letting must be brutal, messy, and wanton.
		 Henceforth, when you incite someone to violence with the Scepter and they act as
			you suggest, they lose themselves to primal bloodlust. They feel no pain and revel
			 in carnage until they are killed, restrained, or crippled.
		 When you use Burning Hatred, something on your person or within reach also
			catches fire.
		 You always hear a dim howling in the back of your mind. When the wind
			 blows, the howling grows in volume, making it difficult to hear anything other
			 than insults or plans to commit violence.
		 When you Persuade using anything other than threats, pain, or violence, the best
			 you can get is a 7-9.
back
10
. major arcanum .
Mysteries of the Hec’tumel Codex
Spells of the Codex
		 Call Up the Dead. Touch a corpse; you conjure its shade, which must truthfully
answer 3 questions. Empowered: Bind the shade to a tether as a revenant or a
ghost; it must perform 3 tasks before being freed from your service.
		 Serpentine. Your soul slithers from your mouth in the form of an albino viper
(tiny, stealthy, quick, venomous), leaving your body insensate until you slither back
in. Use your normal stats while in this form. Empowered: Rather than your soul
leaving your body, you physically transform into a man-sized serpent (2 armor,
stealthy, quick, venomous, forceful, grabby).
		 Snuff the Spirit. Name a living victim within near range and roll 2d6. If the
			 victim has fewer current HP than your roll, it dies suddenly. Empowered: each
			 living creature near your victim is also affected.
		 Torpor. Lock eyes with someone and whisper soothing words. They start to fall
			 asleep. If they resist, roll 3d4—if your roll exceeds their current HP, they fail.
			 Once asleep, they do not age, need not eat/drink, and suffer no harm from
			 poison or disease. They cannot be roused until they hear their name thrice-
			spoken. Empowered: Over 3d6 days, all physical harm heals, lost limbs (etc.)
			 regenerate, poisons & diseases are cured, and the infirmities of age reverse.
Move
		 DARKSOME VESSEL
When you cast a Codex spell, on a 12+ you can choose the Empowered effect. When
you choose to mark a consequence before casting a spell, don’t roll; you get a 12+.
Consequences
		 Over a few days, you lose all body hair. Your skin pales and develops scaly patches.
			 		 Over a few days, you lose all your remaining hair and grow a fine layer of
						scales over all your skin except that on your face. Gain +1 armor.
		 Your body temperature drops and your skin becomes cool to the touch; you have
			 disadvantage on all rolls while exposed to the cold. Your metabolism also slows,
			 and you need to consume supplies or provisions only once every 2 days.
			 		 Your heart rate and breathing slows, and you can hold supremely still for
						 hours on end. You can easily be mistaken for dead. You only need to eat
						 once every 3 days, but you gain no benefit from healing arts or magic.
		 Over a few days, your ears grow smaller and flatten against your head. Your
tongue grows longer, and you can distend your jaw and throat to swallow things
no human should be able to.
			 		 Your eyes grow milky, you no longer blink, and you have trouble seeing
						 things that aren’t moving. Your tongue becomes forked, and you gain a
						preternatural sense of smell and touch.
			 		 Anything that you perceive, Hec’tumel perceives it too.
back
9
. major arcanum .
 . major arcanum .
Ring of Daagon
magical
A finely carved ring of copper, coated in verdigris and always a little damp. Its shape
is that of a strange, reptilian creature devouring its own tail.
When you don the Ring, you feel the presence of every body of water within a few
miles, natural or not, even if it is underground.
When you wear the Ring and caress its reptilian head, the air around you becomes
damper and cooler. If you continue to caress it for a minute or so, a mist gathers near
the ground and grows higher and thicker as long as you continue. A few minutes of
caressing the Ring will blanket your immediate surroundings in thick, obscuring fog.
Half an hour will blanket the countryside. The fog persists for as long as you caress
the Ring, and then dissipates naturally based on the prevailing weather.
When you have used the Ring to summon an obscuring fog and a named creature
dies within that fog, the Ring will ask you (silently, in your mind, not so much with
words as with a deep longing) May I take this one? Should you assent, the creature’s
body will be gone—vanished into the mists—as soon as no mortal is directly paying
it heed. The first time this happens during each fog you summon, mark 1:
l l l
When you make the last mark, you unlock the ring’s mysteries and may Call Up the
Deep Ones (see reverse) while wearing the ring. The ring itself becomes a follower.
		 The Ring
						deep-wise, greedy, patient, knowledgeable, magical
Cost devouring fallen, named creatures (Loyalty
 )
Instinct to give nothing (not even secrets or info) away
ä Speak mind-to-mind
ä Reveal a secret, for a price
ä Know someone’s desires
front
11
Rune-laden Scales
, 2 armor, magical
An ancient vest of bluish steel, each scale etched with a silvery rune similar to those
found among the ruins near Barrier Pass. A working of the Makers, no doubt, or at
least of their most gifted students. The armor is surprisingly light and supple. The
scales are always cold to the touch, and often edged in frost.
When you wear the Rune-laden Scales, you are perfectly comfortable in cold weath-
er and suffer no harm from exposure or magic that might otherwise freeze your
flesh. You have no such immunity to secondary effects of ice-magic, such as slipping,
being impaled by an icicle, becoming encased in a block of ice, or the like.
When you wear the Rune-laden Scales and stand fast against a magical attack, roll
+CON: on a 10+, the magic washes over you, unpleasant perhaps but with no ill
effect; on a 7-9, you’re only partially affected—suffer half damage (if any) and a
reduced effect; on a 6-, mark XP, and the magic affects you fully.
When you wear the Rune-laden Scales and defeat a wielder of chaotic magic, mark 1:
l l l l l
When you make the last mark, you unlock the mysteries of the armor. Gain a move
of your choice (see reverse), but also mark a consequence. Then, erase all marks.
front
12
. major arcanum .
Mysteries of the Rune-laden Scales
Moves
		 INDOMITABLE
When you wear the Scales and stand fast against a magical attack, you can mark a
consequence after you roll to add 3 to the result.
		 MAGNET
When you witness a magical attack, you can either spend 1 Readiness (from the
Defend move) or mark a consequence to redirect the magic so that it affects only
you. You can then stand fast against it.
		 POWER SINK
When you wear the Rune-laden Scales and stand fast against a magical attack, on
a 12+ the armor drains the attacker’s power. That form of attack is lost to them,
though they might regain it with time, study, or effort.
When you wear the Rune-laden Scales and spend time in quiet communion with the
elements, the power absorbed by the armor dissipates harmlessly.
If you trigger Power Sink again before dissipating the absorbed power, mark XP, ask
the GM what happens, and brace yourself for the worst.
		 PROOF AGAINST HARM
The Rune-laden Scales now provide you 3 armor, even against piercing and attacks
that normally ignore armor.
When you wear the Rune-laden Scales and find yourself at Death’s Door, you may
mark a consequence before you roll to automatically get a 10+.
Consequences
		 You no longer mark 1 (see reverse) when you simply defeat a being that wields
			 chaotic magic; you must destroy it instead.
			 		 Mere minions and mindless horrors will no longer suffice. You only mark 1
						 for destroying a potent agent of chaos, such as a mighty demon or sorcerer.
		 When you use or knowingly submit to chaotic magic, the Rune-laden Scales
			 cease to benefit you or anyone you consider to be a friend or ally.
		 When you kill a living creature out of anger, fear, or passion, even an agent of
			 chaos, take disadvantage on all rolls until you ceremonially atone and purify
			yourself.
			 		 When you take any violent action out of anger, fear, or passion, even against
						an agent of chaos, take disadvantage on all rolls until you ceremonially
						atone and purify yourself.
		 You come to the attention of one of the mightiest of the Things Below, and they
			 make your doom—or your corruption—a priority.
		 You ascend into a vision state, in which you meet the spirit of the last hero to
			 wear the Scales. Should you refuse the quest they offer, the Rune-laden Scales
			cease to function.
back
12
. major arcanum .
Mysteries of the Ring of Daagon
Moves
		 CALL UP THE DEEP ONES
When you stand in heavy fog or before deep water and call on the servants of Daagon
to serve you, spend 1 Loyalty or mark a consequence and they appear. Treat them as
followers, sharing a pool of Loyalty with the Ring itself. You can always choose to
mark a consequence in lieu of spending their Loyalty.
		Servant of Daagon
						terrifying, violent, wretched
Instinct to devour
Each time you Call Up the Deep Ones, roll five d4s and assign each to a different aspect:
_____ Tags: 1 = +craven; 2 = +ravenous; 3 = +cunning;
					4 = +exceptional (roll +2 for moves instead of +1)
_____ No. Appearing: 1 = horde (quantity 2d6, HP 3, damage 1d6); 2-3 = group
					 (quantity 1d6+1, HP 6, damage 1d8); 4 = solitary (HP 12, damage 1d10).
_____ Size: 1 = small (-2 HP, -2 damage, hand); 2-3 = medium (close); 4 = large
					(+4 HP, +1 damage, close, reach).
_____ Traits: choose a number equal to the assigned die.
					 		 blubbery/scaly hide (2 armor)				 		 +stealthy and +cautious
					 		 powerful (+2 damage, forceful)				 		 tentacles/pincers, etc. (reach, grabby)
					 		 big claws/fangs (1 piercing, messy) 		 projectiles (+near)
_____ Moves: choose a number equal to the assigned die.
					 		 ä Wriggle free of danger/restraint				 		 ä Heal at a prodigious rate
					 		 ä Smother/constrict/engulf them		 			 		 ä Dissolve organic material
					 		 ä Mesmerize the weak-willed								 		 ä Paralyze them with venom
When you send them back whence they came, roll +CHA: on a 10+, they go, now;
on a 7-9, they go, but take their time and likely do some harm on their way; on a
6-, spend their Loyalty or mark a consequence and they’ll eventually go (as on a
7-9); otherwise, this batch breaks free of your control and are no longer followers.
Consequences
		 Your skin becomes clammy and squamous.
			 		 You can breathe water through your skin, but must keep it moist or suffer
						increasing debilities.
		 You gain nourishment only from meat. Plants, grains and the like no longer
			 count as supplies or provisions when you need to eat.
			 		 Only raw flesh nourishes you, but you are immune to food-borne illness.
		 1d6 sinkholes appear within a few miles of you. At the bottom of each, a
			 megalith protrudes from standing water, attended by servants of Daagon.
		 The ring’s Cost becomes “Living, helpless, intelligent sacrifices.”
back
11
. major arcanum .
 . major arcanum .
Blackwood Fetishes
, magical, indestructible
A pair of wooden figurines, carved from blackwood and worn smooth with age and
use. A whitish shaft has been driven into the top of each figurine’s head, and the
eyes and forehead of each are stained a rusty, reddish color.
The figurines resist all mundane attempts to damage them. Such attempts might
mar them slightly, but their forms hold fast.
When you mark a figurine’s eyes with blood and likewise mark your own eyelids, you
see through the eyes of the figurine whenever you close your eyes, for as long as the
blood remains.
When you anoint a figurine with your own blood and then sleep in its presence, roll
+CON: on a 10+, you dream lucidly of the spirit in the figurine, which speaks an
archaic but intelligible dialect—it might be persuaded to reveal its name, or the
name of its fellow spirit, or the method of calling them forth; on a 7-9, you dream
of the spirit, but the dream is fleeting, strange, and disorienting—ask the GM what
you learn of the spirit.
When you learn the name of one of the bound spirits, or the sign that draws them
forth and binds them, mark 1:
l l l
When you make the last mark, you unlock the mysteries of the Blackwood Fetishes
and can use Call Forth and Command (see reverse).
front
13
Storm Markings
implanted, magical
A series of branching, tree-like markings coursing up and down your skin. Usually
pale blue, almost like veins, but when you become agitated they seem to glow, pulse,
and ripple with light.
The markings are usually seen as a blessing of Tor (rainmaker, thunderhead,
slayer-of-beasts). But like most blessings of the gods, they are also a great burden.
When you roil with anger, you do +1 damage until you calm down. But when you
try to control your temper, roll +WIS: on a 10+, you keep your cool and act as you
wish; on a 7-9, choose 1 from the list below; on a 6-, you just lose it—tell the GM
what damn fool thing you end up doing.
		Take some deep breaths and count to ten, fuming all the while
		 Vent your rage, but tell us how and on what
When you are struck by lightning or an electrical discharge, mark 1, take no damage,
and suffer no ill effects (your gear, alas, has no such protection):
l l l
When you make the last mark, you unlock the mysteries of the Storm Markings and
can use Storm’s Fury (see reverse).
When you would make a mark but have already marked all 3, set your Fury to 3.
front
14
. major arcanum .
Mysteries of the Storm Markings
Moves
		 STORM’S FURY
When you begin to roil with anger, your markings crackle with electricity and the air
thrums with pressure. Roll +CON: on a 10+, hold 3 Fury; on a 7-9, hold 2 Fury; on
a 6-, hold 2 Fury but also mark a consequence.
You may spend Fury 1-for-1 to manifest one of the following:
		Imbue your next strike with the force of thunder (+1d6 damage, forceful, loud)
		 Move like lightning, closing the distance between you and a nearby foe before
they can react
		 Bellow like the storm itself, drawing no small amount of attention and making
craven foes cringe in fear
When you have marked 3 consequences, you gain Chosen of the Storm-bringer.
		 CHOSEN OF THE STORM-BRINGER
Add these to the list of potential manifestations granted by Storm’s Fury:
		Roll +CON to Let Fly with a bolt of lightning (2d6 damage, thrown, forceful,
			loud, dangerous, ignores armor)
		 Make a prodigious leap, buoyed by the wind
		 Summon a powerful gale with you at its center—dirt and debris swirl about, the
			 wind is deafening, people must brace themselves to keep from getting bowled
			 over, projectiles careen off course—and take disadvantage on all rolls as long as
			you sustain it
Consequences
		 Lightning begins to arc off of you, striking objects and creatures nearby at
			 random for 2d6 damage (near, forceful, loud, ignores armor). This lasts until you
			calm down.
		 A gale of winds forms around you, as with Chosen of the Storm-bringer
			 (even if you can’t normally use that move). You can’t dismiss it easily; the effects
			 (including the disadvantage) continue until you calm down.
		 Name an NPC who is present and whose regard you value. They are terrified of
			 the power you wield and grow distant.
		 From now on, when you gain Fury, gain +1 Fury. But you also have disadvantage
			 on rolls to control your temper.
		 A storm forms (or worsens) in your immediate area. It arrives unnaturally fast,
			 but not miraculously so.
		 A terrible storm begins to form in your immediate area and pummels the entire
			 region. Blizzards, tornados, floods—it’s bad.
A terrible storm forms (as above) and the weather remains freakish for a
few months. Your steading takes -2 to its next roll to generate Surplus,
and its next Fortunes roll for Seasons Change is automatically a 6-. Other
communities in the region likewise suffer.
back
14
. major arcanum .
Mysteries of the Blackwood Fetishes
Moves
		 CALL FORTH AND COMMAND
When you mark both figurines with your own blood and call both Astor and Halix by
name, their ghosts manifest before you. Treat them as followers. They are bound to
obey your direct commands and can take no overt action against you, but you might
need to Persuade them to do anything other than follow your orders to the letter.
When you dismiss either Astor or Halix, both return to their figurines until you call
them forth again.
When either Astor or Halix is banished or reduced to 0 HP, they both return to their
respective fetish. They cannot be called forth again until the next new moon.
In life, Astor was a hunter, low-born but handsome and proud. Halix was the lordly heir
of Astor’s people: spoiled, manipulative, vain. Halix took Astor as one of many furtive
lovers, making an insincere blood-oath that one day they would wed.
Their clan fell under the sway of a sorcerer. Astor snuck away to warn the Makers of rebel-
lion, but Halix sided with the sorcerer. The sorcerer used the blood-oath between them to
work foul magic, wrenching Astor’s soul from their body and binding it. To their surprise,
Halix’s soul was likewise bound. The sorcerer used them as spies and assassins, leaving
Astor’s once-noble soul bitter and distrustful. Halix, though, revels in immortality and
delights in the opportunities afforded by this undead state.
Astor
 HP
 Armor
					undead, jealous, sarcastic, spirit, warrior
 hunter, cunning,
 1
Max. 13
 lacks organs
Instinct to comply maliciously
			ä Stalk assigned prey
 Damage ghostly spear d8 (reach,
			ä Manifest a ghostly presence
 			ignores armor)
					 (harmed only by silver or salt)
 Cost proof of honor, nobility
			ä Make a pessimistic observation
 			 (Loyalty
 )
Halix
					undead, spirit, magical, hedonistic,
cautious, devious, stealthy, exceptional
Instinct to second-guess your decisions
			ä Manifest a ghostly presence
					 (harmed only by silver or salt)
			ä Possess an inebriated victim
			ä Spot a weakness, want, or fear
			ä Spin plots and falsehoods
HP
 Armor
1
Max. 10
 lacks organs
Damage ghostly touch d4 (hand, ignores
armor) or host’s weapon d6 (tags vary)
Cost pleasures of the flesh
			(Loyalty
 )
13
. major arcanum .
 . major arcanum .
Ineffable Words
implanted, magical
Syllables of the first language, words of pure thought and will, emblazoned on your
soul and tongue by some angelic force or being. A gift, perhaps. Or a terrible,
terrible affliction.
Their power thrums inside you, pulsing against the crude vessel of your flesh and
blood. Sometimes, under stress or simply out of the blue, you are struck with shakes
and seizures. And when the tremors pass and your senses return, you find that you
have scratched strange symbols in the dirt or on the walls. Sometimes in your
own blood.
When you enter an ecstatic delirium and allow the Ineffable Words to pour forth, roll
+CON: on a 10+, you speak Truth, revealing something new and interesting about
the current situation—ask the GM what, and all present understand this Truth as
though it were spoken in their native tongue; on a 7-9, the 10+ result applies, but
choose 1 from the list below.
		The Truth is cryptic, vague, incomplete
		 You are overcome, collapsing in a full-body seizure
		 You draw unwanted attention
When you spend weeks in ascetic contemplation of the incommunicable words within
you, roll +WIS: on a 10+, you gain insight into the power within you—mark 1
below; on a 7-9, gain advantage on your next attempt to contemplate the words.
l l l
When you make the last mark, you unlock the mysteries of the Ineffable Words and
can Speak the Unutterable (see reverse). Choose 1 Word that you have mastered
and erase all marks above. Thereafter, when you make the last mark, choose another
Word to master and erase all marks.
front
15
Redwood Effigy
magical
A vaguely man-shaped root of blood-red wood, wrapped in tattered cloth. Bright
blue markings adorn the fabric, as do rust-colored stains.
But you know that. After all, you made it yourself. You’ve bound your flesh and soul
to the effigy, and this is the only one you will ever be able to make.
When you perform the secret rite, which requires privacy, a few hours, and a drop of
your own fresh blood, hold 1 Conduit (max 1 Conduit, at least to start).
SURROGATE SUFFERING
When you suffer physical harm while carrying the effigy on your person, you can
spend 1 Conduit. If you do, the effigy suffers that harm in your place. You suffer no
more than a passing inconvenience, and the effigy bears faint signs of the trauma it
has endured in your stead.
Record the diverted harm on the image of the effigy above: a brief description of the
injury, the HP that would have been lost, and any debilities you would have marked.
Write small, in pencil. If the effigy is destroyed, you suffer all this harm at once.
Each time the effigy suffers harm on your behalf, mark 1. If all 3 marks are already
marked, then mark a consequence instead (see reverse).
l l l
When you make the last mark, you unlock the effigy’s mysteries and gain Suffering
Unleashed (see reverse).
front
16
. major arcanum .
Mysteries of the Redwood Effigy
Moves
		 SUFFERING UNLEASHED
When you feed the effigy the blood of another, pick one of the harms recorded on the
reverse and roll +CON: on a 10+, your target suffers that harm fully; on a 7-9, your
target suffers that harm but pick 1; on a 6-, they suffer that harm but all 3 are true:
		They suffer only half the harm’s effects/damage
		 You fully suffer the unleashed harm (you can’t divert it via Surrogate Suffering)
		 Mark a consequence
Regardless, the harm is no longer stored in the effigy—erase it from the reverse.
For every 2 Consequences you mark, gain one of the following moves:
		 GREATER CONDUIT
When you perform the secret rite, hold 3 Conduit instead of 1 (and increase
your max Conduit to 3). You no longer need the effigy on your person to use
Surrogate Suffering. However, any magic that divines your location or spies on
you also targets the effigy.
		 THE ROOTS GROW DEEP
When you use Suffering Unleashed and roll a 12+, clear a mark from the reverse.
		 WE ARE AS ONE
You can sense, speak, and even work magic through the effigy as though it were
an extension of yourself. (It remains inanimate.)
Consequences
		 Your heartbeat slows and your emotions dull. Magic cannot stir your emotions
			 unless it specifically targets the effigy. Alas, you can no longer Burn Brightly.
		 Your blood flows like sap and your muscles become like wood. Gain +1 armor
			 and +4 max HP, but you can no longer regain HP via the Recover move. When
			you Make Camp, you must rest while touching soil or you get no benefit.
		 Henceforth, when anyone works magic upon the effigy, it affects you instead and
			bypasses any defenses that you have in place (including Surrogate Suffering).
		 Henceforth, when you suffer physical harm while you hold Conduit, you must
			 spend it and use Surrogate Suffering.
		 The effigy becomes both fragile and highly flammable. When you suffer damage
			 from heat or fire, you take +1d6 damage. If the effigy suffers harm from heat or
			 fire in your place, it will burst into flames and be destroyed.
		 When you roll 6- at Death’s Door, you have no choice: gain the Revenant insert
			 until the effigy is destroyed (and you become a wraith controlled by the GM) or
			 it is buried in a Red Grove (and you become an NPC spirit of that grove).
When you would mark a consequence but they’ve all been marked, pick a harm stored
in the effigy at random. Erase that harm and suffer it now (it can’t be diverted).
back
16
. major arcanum .
Mysteries of the Ineffable Words
Moves
		 SPEAK THE UNUTTERABLE
When you speak an Ineffable Word that you have mastered, roll +CON: on a 10+,
the Word’s power manifests as described; on a 7-9, the Word’s power manifests, but
choose 1 from the list below; on a 6-, the GM says what happens (which may or
may not involve marking a consequence).
		You collapse in a full-body seizure
		 Mark a consequence
MASTERED WORDS
		 Seal. Name a portal, clasp, or seam in your presence. If you speak this Word
			 forward, the target seals shut and holds against any mundane attempt to open it.
			 If you speak backward, the target is pried open or apart.
		 Purify. Name an instance of corruption, infection, or taint in your presence. If
			 you speak this Word forward, the target is cleansed. If you speak backward, the
			 corruption grows and spreads aggressively.
		 Gather. Name an unliving object in your presence. If you speak this Word
			 forward, the object is drawn forcefully towards you, possibly flying through the
			 air and into your hand. If you speak backward, the object is flung away from
			 you. If the object weighs more than you, or is secured by something that does,
			 it is you that moves instead.
		 Empower. Name a living thing or vessel for power in your presence. If you
speak this Word forward, the target surges with power. A creature heals 1d8
HP or gains advantage on its next roll. If you speak backward, the target is
drained of energy. A creature takes 1d8 damage (ignores armor) or takes disad-
vantage on its next roll.
Consequences
		 The Word’s power draws the attention of every magical being for miles
			 around. They will recognize you on sight as the bearer of the Word.
		 The power of the Word overflows, affecting every possible target within far
			 range to violent effect.
		 Your voice takes on a metallic, inhuman edge. Henceforth, all creatures under-
			 stand you as though you spoke their native tongue, but you can never again use
			 language to lie or deceive.
		 The Word tears reality, leaving a rift from which primordial power pours into
the
			 world. Expect all manner of strange and chaotic effects.
		 You rouse an eternal, ancient being of Order. It seeks you out, implacably, to
			 reprimand you for your reckless use of such primordial power.
back
15
. major arcanum .
 . major arcanum .
Hungering Maw of Hlad
magical
A ring of black metal bands, woven in an intricate pattern beyond the skills of
modern smiths. The way the bands twist on each other seems to defy reality, and the
weak-willed find themselves pondering the bands for minutes or hours.
The metal is always cold. Always.
When you wear the ring and press it firmly into the skin of a living thing, the ring
draws the life-force from your victim. If your victim is helpless or unable to struggle,
they are reduced to 0 HP (see below).
If your victim struggles, roll +CON: on a 10+, deal 1d10 damage (ignores armor)
and they are left reeling (a PC or follower marks a debility, an NPC or monster
grants advantage on any moves made against it until it recovers); on a 7-9, deal 1d10
damage (ignores armor) but you suffer whatever counterattack they dish out; on a
6-, ask the GM what happens (which may or may not involve marking a conse-
quence; see reverse).
When you use the ring to reduce an intelligent victim to 0 HP, roll 1d6:
1d6
 effect
1-2 Their soul is wounded but they’ll live, suffering from unnatural, compulsive
hungers; should they die in this state, they become a wraith.
3-4 Their soul is wounded and their body gives up; they become a wraith.
5-6 Their soul is consumed and utterly destroyed by the ring—mark 1 below.
l l l
When you make the last mark, you unlock the ring’s mysteries. Gain Siphon (see
reverse) and erase all the marks. Each time you mark the third circle, gain another
move from the reverse. If you have all the moves, mark a consequence instead.
front
17
Azure Hand
, close, magical, awkward
A thick staff of gray metal, topped with a plate of aetherium in the shape of a
stylized hand. The palm is embossed with a cloud and lightning bolt, and the whole
thing is more than a little top-heavy. It smells of ozone, and your spine never ceases
to tingle in its presence.
When you bear the Azure Hand, you sense sources, currents, and reservoirs of ener-
gy much like you sense the pull of gravity or the position of your own hand. You can
closely study such energy and Seek Insight about it.
When you brandish the Azure Hand at a source of elemental energy, roll +CON: on
a 10+, you gather the energy about the Hand in a swirling vortex for as long as you
grip the staff or until you choose 1 from the list below; on a 7-9, as a 10+, but the
vortex is unstable and maintaining it requires all your focus.
			 Direct the energy into a vessel able to contain it
			 Discharge the energy harmlessly into the earth
			 Fling the energy, rolling +INT to Let Fly (thrown, dangerous), inflicting
			 damage and other effects of the GM’s choosing
			 Use the energy to fuel or empower some other magic
On a 6-, instead of marking XP, mark 1:
l l l l
Each time you mark 1, ask the GM how the power goes out of control.
When you make the last mark, you unlock the mysteries of the Azure Hand—
choose one of the moves on the reverse, and erase all marks above.
front
18
. major arcanum .
Mysteries of the Azure Hand
Moves
		BATTERY
When you gather elemental power about the Azure Hand, you can choose to store
the energy in the staff itself. It no longer requires your touch or focus to maintain.
You cannot do this again until you use up the energy contained within (see reverse).
		 EYE OF THE STORM
When you grasp the Azure Hand and impose your will on the elements around you,
roll +CON: on a 10+, the elements calm or diminish in their power, and choose 2
from the list below; on a 7-9, the elements calm or diminish, and choose 1.
			 You suffer no consequence (otherwise, mark one)
			 The effect is far reaching, up to a mile around you (otherwise, it extends just a
			few paces)
			 You can maintain the effect easily (otherwise, it takes all of your concentration)
		 RESONANCE
(Requires: Battery, Eye of the Storm)
When you have captured a tremendous elemental force (like that from a storm or
wildfire) and then channel it into the eddies of air or earth, pick 1 from the list below
and roll +INT: on a 10+, it comes to pass; on a 7-9, it will come to pass if you choose
to mark a consequence; on a 6-, mark a consequence and prepare for the worst.
			 A potent storm or earthquake builds, unleashing itself within the next few hours.
			 The weather for the next few weeks is abnormal, hotter or colder, wetter or
			 dryer, windier or more still, per your desires (though nothing too extreme).
			 The weather for the next few months is generally favorable; any steading in
			 the area gains advantage to its next Seasons Change roll.
Consequences
		 You are burned by the power you attempt to wield. Mark a debility and
			 take 2d4 damage (ignores armor).
		You become bound to the staff. You can call it to your hand from up to far
			 range, but you fully suffer the effects of any harm or magic visited upon it.
		Your eyes become a solid bluish white, darkening or brightening with your
			 mood. You now see energy patterns, glowing brightly, which can obscure facial
			 expressions and other details unless you focus.
		Your skin takes on a bluish tint; your hair is steaked with white; the air about
			 you thrums with power. Sensitive beings can easily sense your presence, even
			from afar.
		Henceforth, any storm in your presence is unnaturally strong. If you spend a
			 summer or a winter in a steading or within a day’s march of one, the steading
			 loses 1d4-1 Surplus due to storms.
		Your body pulses with barely controlled energy. Henceforth, when you roll
			 +CON and get a 6-, you unleash bolts of elemental power all about you (1d10
			damage, near, area, forceful, dangerous) in addition to whatever else the GM says.
18
. major arcanum .
Mysteries of the Hungering Maw of Hlad
Moves
		 SIPHON
When you raise your ringed hand and will the ring to consume someone’s life-force (at
up to reach range), roll +CON: on a 10+, deal 1d10 damage (grabby, ignores armor);
on a 7-9, deal 1d10 damage (ignores armor) but choose one:
		The ring eats at your life-force, too—lose 1d10 HP and mark a debility
		 Mark a consequence
On a 6-, the GM says what happens (which may or may not involve marking a
consequence).
		 INESCAPABLE PULL
You can use Siphon at up to near range, and on a 10+ you can can choose to drag
the victim closer.
		 MAELSTROM
When you use Siphon, you can mark a consequence before rolling to affect a number
of victims within range. Roll +CON once, but roll damage separately for each target.
		 DUST TO DUST
When you wear the ring and press it firmly against a work of mortal artifice, mark a
debility and then roll +CON: on a 10+, the artifice fails or is ruined (say how); on
a 7-9, it is ruined (as per a 10+) but also mark a consequence; on a 6-, the GM says
what happens (which may or may not involve marking a consequence.)
Consequences
		 A powerful earthquake strikes the area. Each time you choose this option,
			 the quake is longer, more powerful, more destructive.
		 The ring fuses to your flesh and bone and can no longer be removed without
			 cutting off your finger.
			 		 The air in your presence is always noticeably colder, though you yourself are
						 unharmed and unfazed by even the bitterest cold.
		 The ring wounds your soul, reducing your max HP by 4. Until your soul is
			 healed, your instinct becomes “Hunger: to fill the emptiness inside you with
			 excess.” Should you roll a 6- on Death’s Door, you die and become a wraith (a
			 monster in the GM’s control).
		 The ring opens a gaping vortex, sucking in the life-force of everything around
			it (d10 damage, near, area, grabby, ignores armor) and weakening stone and
			 metal and wood. You can, perhaps, close the vortex through a force of will.
		 The earth shakes. The ring tears at your life-force (1d10 damage, messy, ignores
			 armor, mark all three debilities). The ring is gone and your hand is left a
			 withered and palsied thing. And somewhere, a hole has opened in the world.
